README.md, before:

### Workshop Syllabus
12.–26.08.2018 RMIT University<br>
Masters of Communication Design<br>
Mondays, Studio 09.

### Course Outline
This course will begin by looking at your machine, as structure and framework in an effort to understand what the fundamentals of what a website is and how it functions both online and offline. By utilising your knowledge about composition, typography, and hierarchy as a basis – we will draw comparisons between the contemporary tools and the modern web browser as a space for design. The outcome for this series of workshops is a static portfolio.

### Pre-workshop
Sign up for a free account at https://github.com - you will be using this account to store and host the work you do for the course, as well as for final submissions.

### Readings
[My website is a shifting house....by Laurel Schwulst](https://thecreativeindependent.com/people/laurel-schwulst-my-website-is-a-shifting-house-next-to-a-river-of-knowledge-what-could-yours-be/)

### Week 1: What is the internet?
- A brief history of the internet
- An introduction to using the terminal
- An introduction to using git & github
Readings:
[The Shape of the Network....by Tung-Hui Hu] (https://ufile.io/cyfeu)

### Week 2: HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)
- Basics of document structure
- How do tags work? When to use what.
- Setting up a project structure
Readings:
(tbc)

### Week 3: CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)
- the relationship between content and presentation
- inline or external?
- Basics of CSS including syntax, selectors, comments, style, positioning etc
Readings:
(tbc)

----

## Setup Instructions

### Terminal

Your Mac includes a console application called Terminal.app, located in `/Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app`. The easiest way to open Terminal.app is to use the Spotlight shortcut <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Space</kbd> and then type "Terminal".

Once your terminal is open you can add it to your Dock for quick access.

The terminal accepts a form of computer code at the prompt called `bash`, and is used to interact with the various functions of your computer.

### git

`git` should be already installed on your Mac and almost ready to go. However when you first run `git` the XCode Developer Tools will need to be installed.

In your terminal, run
```
git --version
```
to start the process if necessary.

Next, Configure git credentials
```
git config --global credential.helper osxkeychain
```

### GitHub

GitHub is an online platform for hosting code and providing tools for publication and collaboration with other developers. Your `git` command line tool will "push" and "pull" code from GitHub.

Visit [GitHub](https://github.com) and create an account.
Remember your username and password.
Your username will form part of your website addresses, ie `https://public-office.github.io/workshop-syllabus`

### Text editor

Computer code is text. When writing code you will use a plain text editor. Any text editor can work, however there are speciailised text editors that are designed for writing code, offering useful features such as syntax highlighting, code hints/completion and file management.

Download and install one of the following code editors:

  * [Atom](https://atom.io/)<sup>*</sup>
  * [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/)
  * [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

\* We assume you will choose Atom as your editor during the course.

### Web browser

In this course we will use Google Chrome as our web browser. If you haven't already, download and install Chrome [here](https://www.google.com/chrome/).

Commit message:

Bit more detail in the git config

README.md, after:

### Workshop Syllabus
12.–26.08.2018 RMIT University<br>
Masters of Communication Design<br>
Mondays, Studio 09.

### Course Outline
This course will begin by looking at your machine, as structure and framework in an effort to understand what the fundamentals of what a website is and how it functions both online and offline. By utilising your knowledge about composition, typography, and hierarchy as a basis – we will draw comparisons between the contemporary tools and the modern web browser as a space for design. The outcome for this series of workshops is a static portfolio.

### Pre-workshop
Sign up for a free account at https://github.com - you will be using this account to store and host the work you do for the course, as well as for final submissions.

### Readings
[My website is a shifting house....by Laurel Schwulst](https://thecreativeindependent.com/people/laurel-schwulst-my-website-is-a-shifting-house-next-to-a-river-of-knowledge-what-could-yours-be/)

### Week 1: What is the internet?
- A brief history of the internet
- An introduction to using the terminal
- An introduction to using git & github
Readings:
[The Shape of the Network....by Tung-Hui Hu] (https://ufile.io/cyfeu)

### Week 2: HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)
- Basics of document structure
- How do tags work? When to use what.
- Setting up a project structure
Readings:
(tbc)

### Week 3: CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)
- the relationship between content and presentation
- inline or external?
- Basics of CSS including syntax, selectors, comments, style, positioning etc
Readings:
(tbc)

----

## Setup Instructions

### Terminal

Your Mac includes a console application called Terminal.app, located in `/Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app`. The easiest way to open Terminal.app is to use the Spotlight shortcut <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Space</kbd> and then type "Terminal".

Once your terminal is open you can add it to your Dock for quick access.

The terminal accepts a form of computer code at the prompt called `bash`, and is used to interact with the various functions of your computer.

### git

`git` should be already installed on your Mac and almost ready to go. However when you first run `git` the XCode Developer Tools will need to be installed.

In your terminal, enter the following command to start the process if necessary.

```
git --version
```

Next tell git to only ask for your password once and remember it.

```
git config --global credential.helper osxkeychain
```

Tell git your name and email address.

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
```

```
git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
```

### GitHub

GitHub is an online platform for hosting code and providing tools for publication and collaboration with other developers. Your `git` command line tool will "push" and "pull" code from GitHub.

Visit [GitHub](https://github.com) and create an account. Use the name email address you entered into your git config. Remember your username and password.

Your username will form part of your website addresses, ie `https://public-office.github.io/workshop-syllabus`

### Text editor

Computer code is text. When writing code you will use a plain text editor. Any text editor can work, however there are speciailised text editors that are designed for writing code, offering useful features such as syntax highlighting, code hints/completion and file management.

Download and install one of the following code editors:

  * [Atom](https://atom.io/)<sup>*</sup>
  * [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/)
  * [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

\* We assume you will choose Atom as your editor during the course.

### Web browser

In this course we will use Google Chrome as our web browser. If you haven't already, download and install Chrome [here](https://www.google.com/chrome/).
